Another straight up win,
thrown values can now be
regarded as unknowns.
So before TypeScript 4.0,
anything you would encounter
in a catch block cart value,
it would be of type any.
And this has always made giving
me a little eye twitch, right?
Dealing with thrown values in a consistent
way is important because errors
are nice and throwing things that are not
errors can leave you missing information.
So here's an example.
If you just in your terminal run node -e,
which is, I believe, evaluate or execute.
It'll run whatever string
you pass it as if it's code.
So here's an example of throwing an error.
And you can see we get this
nice little stack trace.
Here is an example of us doing
the same thing and throwing a string.
Note the lack of a stack trace.
And you may say, well,
I always throw errors,
what monster would throw
string in their code?
Surely not me.
And you may be perfectly consistent
about that in your own code.
But even a smallish JavaScript or
TypeScript project these days has
thousands of dependencies and
you cannot be sure what exactly
is thrown behind the scenes.
And it only takes a couple of these errors
without stack traces to start making,
it's basically robbing you of
the clues you need to fix bugs that
occur when users are actually hitting
code paths that we'll throw, right?
So how does this relate
to the type of the error?
Well, it encourages us to
check these values out and
to see is this really
an instance of an error?
Or is it something else, right?
So, for example, in this case where we're
throwing a string, the proper thing to do
here would be to say, this isn't an error,
something weird is going on here.
Let's pass the string into a new error and
throw that.
So at least we get a stack
trace to where this was caught.
And that's better than nothing,
that's better than complete mystery here,
which is just sort of an error
occurred somewhere in your
application at some time.
Good luck, have fun.
That's what this situation tells you.
So here's what the first aspect
of this feature set looks like.
You can now do this.
You can say,
I'm catching a thrown value here.
Please type it as unknown.
You could not do this in
earlier versions of TypeScript.
And you can see here we
rethrow where appropriate.
We take anything else, and we kind of just
coerce it to string, and
throw it as an error.
So everything above
this point in our code,
we'll get something with a message
property, a stack trace, right?
All of the things that they are important
clues to help us track down the problem.
So this is great.
This helps us do the right thing.
In addition to that, so this I think
landed in TypeScript 4.1 maybe.
Shortly after we got a compiler
option that allowed us to
say throughout our entire code base,
don't even make me do this.
I want you to just say anything I find
in a catch block is an unknown always.
And that will encourage you to use type
guards and to handle it as appropriate.
And this will help make sure that at
least in the code that you write,
you're gonna end up with the clues
you need to play detective later on.
I am unaware of any downside here
other than its you will uncover
things in your code and
you will need to patch them up.
But this is a straight improvement
with no negative consequence as far
as I'm concerned.